# express-template

A template for starting projects with `express` as an API. Includes
authentication and common middlewares.

This template follows Rails-like conventions for organizing controller and
model code, and has a routing layer which is similar to the Rils routing DSL.

## Dependencies

Install with `npm install`.

-   [`express`](http://expressjs.com/)
-   [`mongoose`](http://mongoosejs.com/)

At the beginning of each cohort, update the versions in
[`package.json`](package.json) by replace all versions with a glob (`*`) and
running `npm update --save && npm update --save-dev`. You may wish to test these
changes by deleting the `node_modules` directory and running `npm install`.
Fix any conflicts.

## Installation

1.  [Download](../../archive/master.zip) this template.
1.  Unzip and rename the template directory.
1.  Empty [`README.md`](README.md) and fill with your own content.
1.  Move into the new project and `git init`.
1.  Replace all instances of `'express-template'` with your app name. This
    includes `package.json`, various debugger configurations, and the MongoDB
    store.
1.  Install dependencies with `npm install`.
1.  Run the API server with `npm start`. If you want your code to be reloaded on
    change, you should `npm install -g nodemon` and use `nodemon` instead of
    `npm start`.

## Structure

Dependencies are stored in [`package.json`](package.json).

Do not configure `grunt` packages directly in the
[`Gruntfile.js`](Gruntfile.js). Instead, store configurations in the
[`grunt`](grunt) directory. You won't need a top-level key, since that's
generated by the `Gruntfile.js` based on the filename of the configuration
object stored in the `grunt` directory.

Developers should store JavaScript files in [`app/controllers`](app/controllers)
 and [`app/models`](app/models).
Routes are stored in [`config/routes.rb`](config/routes.rb)

## Tasks

Developers should run these often!

-   `grunt nag` or just `grunt`: runs code quality analysis tools on your code
    and complains
-   `grunt reformat`: reformats all your code in a standard style
-   `grunt test`: runs any automated tests

## [License](LICENSE)

Source code distributed under the MIT license. Text and other assets copyright
General Assembly, Inc., all rights reserved.
